We took a walk every day up over top of Soames Hill through
the bush, sometimes bushwhacking, sometimes on trails. And that was beautiful
to be able to do that, to be in the forest and to
see the gorgeous trees. Our little cabin that we had had a lovely
view of part of the ocean. And I'm so glad that I spent that
much time of that year walking in the woods, because the next year
I couldn't do it anymore and I had no idea that that was
coming on that quickly. Kenn has real pain issues stemming from his hereditary
spastic paraplegia, which is a rare genetic condition. The nerves in his
base of the spine are dying and the signals don't get to his
brain and the signals that do get to his brain are often
unpleasant. Yes, that's a good way to put it.
We're aiming to get feedback from the local community about their experiences
with trying to access or accessing what's called Safe Supply currently.
Our own experience in that department has been unbelievably frustrating.
It's not client centered healthcare, it's more like
oppressive, judgemental... Paternalistic, patriarchal. Yes. I mean they
bring us our pills every day and that's very generous, but the pills
aren't enough to keep us well. If we
lose our illicit supply, then we get sick, like same as anybody coming
off of opiates except for... Unfortunately, I had a prescription for hydromorphone
for 15 years and then that doctor retired
and so when he retired, there were no doctors taking new patients on
essential cost at all. He did not stigmatize us, he treated us like human
beings. We had it too good for too long. A new methadone manifesto,
relatively recently, which describes exactly this scenario as the ideal
scenario for treating opiate dependent people, treat them like any other
patient. Have them see a doctor, prescribe them their medicine, treat them
like normal people. Unfortunately when this switch happened and I lost my
prescription and the doctor went away, the nice doctor,
then it just happened to be around the time that fentanyl was arriving
on the illicit scene, except we didn't know that.
And we thought we were buying heroin and turned out that not to be heroin
or some maybe had some heroin but had a whole bunch of fentanyl in it. And
so anyway we've been addicted essentially dependent on fentanyl in our illicit
supply for... As long as COVID's been happening. Basically when COVID hit...
That all it was a... Yeah, it was great entry to the pandemic. So
it's been a rough past few four years or something like that.
My advice would be to listen to the people who are coming to
them for support or for help. To listen to what those people are
saying, what us, what we are saying we need.
As though they are another human being like... As though we're equals, at
least as though we're equals.